---
layout: post
title: First month update from the board
author: Tomas Petricek
date: 2017-07-25
---

It has been almost three weeks since I started The Failing F# Mirror and the reactions have
been overwhelmingly positive. In the [first post from 6 July](/2017/board-member-plans-for-the-first-two-months), 
I asked all the board members for their plans for the first two months. There is still a bit
of time before these are due, but I collected a couple of mid-term updates. The notes from the 
first meeting of the new board also [appeared on the foundation web 
site](http://foundation.fsharp.org/board_meeting_20170606), so there are more news to report!

## What's in the meeting notes?

Let's start with the [meeting notes](http://foundation.fsharp.org/board_meeting_20170606). Here
are the most important items from the notes:

 - The foundation became sponsor of [FableConf 2017](http://fable.io/fableconf) and of
   [Open FSharp 2017](http://openfsharp.org/). The first conference received a donation of 
   $1000 and the foundation became Platinum sponsor of the second one (your reporter was, however,
   unable to find out how much that is).
   
 - Paulmichael Blasucci ([@pblasucci](https://twitter.com/pblasucci)) became the treasurer of the
   F# Software Foundation. Given that the foundation was without a treasurer for a long time, this
   should make the operation smoother, but it also means that The F# Mirror has another person
   to investigate (we know that Paul is from New Jersey, so care is order)!

 - Gien Verschatse ([@selketjah](http://twitter.com/selketjah)) became the Chairperson of the 
   Training and Education Working Group. A comment from Gien on the new role is included below
   in the updates.


## Updates from members

As promised, I asked the board members for an update on their work for the board so far. This
was more an opportunity to share thoughts, because there is still time until the end of the two
month period. My question from 10 July is below. To make going through the list of updates easier, 
I group them a bit roughly based on the topics.

> (...) It's been a month or so since I first asked, so I'd be happy to publish updates - in case 
> your plans have changed (as plans always do) and you'd like to update the plans (or in case you 
> successfully completed something early!) -- so, if you want to include a brief update in the 
> next issue, please send them to me! (...) If you have no updates and you're busy working on your 
> 2 [month] plans, that's good too - I'll just include "No update - working on the commitments 
> listed originally"!

## Members hosting office hours

 * **Gien Verschatse** ([@selketjah](http://twitter.com/selketjah)) -
   When I took up the position of chairperson of the workgroup communication and training I had to 
   shift my priorities a bit and I decided to work on closing the last round of the mentorship 
   programme and starting a new one. I also decided, as being a chairperson, being present on the 
   slack was important and I would introduce biweekly office hours.
   
   _The F# Mirror confirms the biweekly office hours have been happening at 5pm London time 
   (9am West Coast, 12pm East Coast, 1am Tokyo) on Mondays 10 July and 24 July in #fssf, so the next one will 
   be on 7 August. Do join!_
   
   _Gien is also working on setting up F# sticker distribution centre in Europe and shared
   the following photo with us:_

   <div style="padding:10px 10% 20px 10%"><img src="/images/2017/stickers.jpg" class="img-responsive" /></div>

 
 * **Mathias Brandewinder** ([@brandewinder](https://twitter.com/brandewinder)) - 
   I had promised to dig up my notes on "how to start and grow a meetup" from the Google Docs 
   basement where it was stored. This is done, and that has been [put on 
   GitHub](https://github.com/fsharp/community.fsharp.org/blob/gh-pages/BUILDING_COMMUNITY.md).
   The document is super rough, but this is what I had - now I would love input / feedback on how to make this better.
   If you have thoughts / experience / questions about starting or growing an F# meetup, talk to me, or, better, send a PR to this doc.
   Note that this isn't "published" / visible on the website at the moment, so this should also be low pressure to send edits.
 
   _The F# Mirror also confirms the Mathias has been hosting his weekly office hours regularly. Those
   happen on Fridays, 5pm London time (9am West Coast, 12pm East Coast, 1am Tokyo) in #fssf. Do join!_

## New F# meetup in Quito

 * **Edgar Sanchez** ([@edgarsanchez](http://twitter.com/edgarsanchez)) - 
   [F]irst the good news, [F# |> Quito](https://www.meetup.com/FSharp-Quito/) became a thing, we have 
   already had two monthly meetings, and we have date for the next one, August 8th, the attendance is 
   small but stable, and we'll have a volunteer speaker next time.

   On the "help start F# UG in another country" things has been slow so far, my friends in Lima, Perú 
   are hesitant to volunteer, but I keep working on it. On the other, one goal I didn't state (...) 
   is that I planned to do a workshop with university teachers once every quarter. [T]his has gone 
   like crazy, currently I have shown F# to teachers in 3 local universities so far, and I'm visiting 
   another one this weekend!
   
   Given that the F# |> Quito goal seems to be accomplished, I'm ready to set a new goal: to work with 
   school / uni teachers at least once every two months (...) talking about F# in education.
   
   _Edgar also shared a link to [his new blog](https://medium.com/@edgarsanchezg) where he published
   3 blog posts recently, including a guide on getting started with F# on Ubuntu. Reed Copsey 
   commented that "[he]'d love to see the 'use' guides on fsharp.org written more like [Edgar's] blog".
   Your reporter suggested improving the 'use' guides as a nice additional goal..._ 

## F# Community Diversity Program

 * **Kit Eason** ([@kitlovesfsharp](https://twitter.com/kitlovesfsharp)) - _The F# Mirror did not
   get a direct message from Kit, but we report that Kit was behind the newly started [F#
   Community Diversity Program](http://foundation.fsharp.org/announcing_the_diversity_program),
   which was his second goal. The program will be supporting members of underrepresented minorities 
   to attend conferences and other community events._

## Work-in-progress updates

 * **Alena Hall** ([@lenadroid](http://twitter.com/lenadroid)) - Good news about "open-agenda" or 
   "community-agenda"! The Board liked my draft and proposal, so right now we are setting things up 
   to really try it out starting with next meeting.  
   _The F# Mirror will share any announcements about this!_    

 * **Chet Husk** ([@chethusk](http://twitter.com/chethusk)) - 
   I'm working on a plan of attack to update the learning resources mentioned on the Learn pages of
   fsharp.org, to get a community effort around bringing them up to date with the new SDK and focus 
   on the zero-to-coding experience for new developers.
 
There were also two interesting discussions in the #fssf channel that your reporter noticed.

 * First of all, Ryan Riley ([@panesofglass](http://twitter.com/panesofglass)) joined to briefly
   talk about the futrue of [c4fsharp.net](http://c4fsharp.net) and figuring out how the resurce
   could be made more useful.

 * Second, Krzysztof Cieślak ([@k_cieslak](https://twitter.com/k_cieslak)) commented on the goal 
   to have 2,500 Slack members by the end of the year and compared the numbers with other Slacks
   (Elixir 15,400 and Elm 9,400). Your reporter noted that those are open while the F# Foundation
   Slack requires a FSSF membership - Reed Copsey said that the foundation is working on making
   easier Slack sign-in easier.

The F# Mirror did not get an update from Scott Wlaschin, Victor Peter Rouven Müller
and Yukitoshi Suzuki this time, but as noted above - this was just an opportunity to share
news with The F# Mirror readers!

Finally, thanks to [our first contributor](https://github.com/the-fsharp-mirror/the-fsharp-mirror.github.io/pull/2),
[Daniel J. Summers](https://github.com/danieljsummers), The F# Mirror now uses Jekyll in a more
reasonable way, so you can share links to individual posts!
